Good morning and welcome to our session,
Working with iOS Accessories.
I'm Emily Schubert and I'm responsible
for our interface to accessories.
iOS provides more opportunities than
ever for applications to interact
with accessories and external devices.
In this session,
we will talk about some of those
opportunities and we will highlight
for you what is new with iOS 5.
Last year in this session,
we gave you an overview of all
of the available interfaces.
We also then went into some detail on
Bluetooth and told you how best to make
use of the iOS Bluetooth interfaces
from an app and accessory perspective.
Then we talked to you about the
External Accessory framework,
which was an exciting new feature.
We talked about it in some depth.
Now today we have a number
of new topics for you,
and then we'll give you updates
on some of the other topics.
First, we will talk about AirPlay.
This is a Wi-Fi feature and we will
talk to you about what AirPlay means
to you as both an app developer
and an accessory developer.
We will then give you an update
on Bluetooth and talk to you about
what's new in Bluetooth for iOS 5,
as well as our recommendations for how
to make the best Bluetooth accessories
or apps that really take
advantage of our interfaces.
We will wrap up with some updates
on specific accessory features
that are more general and include
updates on EA in that section.
Now I would like to hand it over to
Peter Langenfeld to talk about AirPlay.
Thanks, Emily.
Morning.
I'm Peter Langenfeld, and I'm the feature
manager here at Apple,
and I'm here to talk to you
guys about AirPlay today.
So there's three basic
things I want to cover.
First, what is AirPlay?
Why are we here at
Apple so excited about it?
Why do we think it's a great technology,
and why do we think all of you should
be really excited about it as well?
Next, for you iOS developers,
how do you best take advantage of
AirPlay in your own apps to make
sure that your customers can get
the kind of the premier experience,
if you will, with AirPlay accessories
and AirPlay technology?
And finally,
for you accessory manufacturers,
I want to talk to you about kind
of a couple of things that you
should be thinking about when
designing an AirPlay accessory,
and a couple of things that are a
little different than your normal
accessory development and application.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So what is AirPlay?
AirPlay is a collection of wireless
streaming services and technologies
that's really meant to take the
experience from the iOS device in
the palm of your hand and to put
it up on the big screen television,
on your home theater,
on pretty much any other accessory that
isn't actually in the palm of your hand.
It consists of audio, video, photo,
and as we just introduced yesterday, now,
mirroring.
So basically, AirPlay is designed to work
around the Wi-Fi standard.
That means you don't have to
buy any special equipment.
It just works with the router
that's already in your home.
You don't have to buy any packages.
Basically, you buy an AirPlay accessory,
you bring it home,
get it on your network,
and it just works.
If you want a second one,
you can buy a second one,
but there's no need to buy any sort of
system or integrated technology beyond
your iOS device and the single accessory
you just purchased in the store.
[Transcript missing]
On to photos.
So photo streaming is once
again to the Apple TV.
And the idea is basically
if you've created this great
slide show on your iOS device,
on your Mac, et cetera,
and you spent all this time
synchronizing your audio and
designing your transitions perfectly,
with AirPlay photos you can just stream
it directly to your Apple TV and enjoy
it with your friends and family a
little easier than just trying to show
them the small device in your hand.
If you decide to create a slide
show kind of on the fly and you
decide not to put all that time
and effort into the transitions,
you can also take advantage of the
transitions on the Apple TV itself.
So you'll look like a rock star
even though you may not have spent
the time to really become one.
Finally, the announcement of yesterday
announced AirPlay mirroring.
The idea between AirPlay mirroring is
really that it's the same as the digital
AV cable that we introduced the iPad to,
just without the wires.
So it's not the same as the digital
AV cable that we introduced the iPad to,
just without the wires.
It's the same mirroring function,
mirroring service,
you don't have to worry about
having to walk over your TV,
having an adapter, hooking it up,
it goes straight to the Apple TV just
from a single route selection.
You can utilize games, web, apps,
pretty much everything on your iOS
device and put it up on the screen
without having to worry about it.
You get the same rotation capabilities
you have with the digital AV adapter.
When I rotate the iPad,
I see it in landscape or portrait
depending on the orientation.
So what does that mean?
That means I can have a different
display on my iPad than I'm seeing
on the big screen television.
So I can actually tailor my app to
give a really great experience if
I want to basically see a map or see
some sort of status on my iPad but
really focus on the action on the
big screen or alternatively also the
audio on the big home theater system.
So moving on, AirPlay Accessories.
We have this great ecosystem of
AirPlay Accessories that already exist.
We're going to see an even bigger
ecosystem of AirPlay Accessories
this holiday season.
And I want to get you guys excited a
little bit about the concept that you can
create accessories that really fit into
any corner of the lifestyle of the users.
As you can see,
we have units that have displays,
units without displays,
small sort of home theater systems.
We have the Apple TV,
the Airport Express.
Pretty much anything you can imagine
can be made into an AirPlay accessory.
And I think there's a lot of space here.
There's a lot of excitement.
There's a lot of interesting things
we can do for the consumer in
terms of making sure they can enjoy
their audio and their video kind
of in every corner of their home.
So that's it.
That's AirPlay.
Hopefully you guys are a little
more excited than when you started.
You understand kind of generally what
it is we're talking about and maybe
some possibilities of what we can do.
Let's talk through a few more
specifics of actually using the
individual AirPlay experiences.
So on the left of the screen,
you'll notice the iPod app.
On the right,
you'll notice the movie player.
This is the standard view you get,
standard transport control,
standard volume controller.
And in this particular example,
I'm looking at a network that
has no AirPlay devices resident.
Now I've gone on to a network
where I do have AirPlay devices,
and you'll notice the AirPlay icon has
popped up automatically with no kind of
effort or action from the user other than
actually getting on the network itself.
Now, once I click on that icon,
I get the route picker,
and there's something I want to point
out here in terms of a difference
between the iPod application and
the movie player application.
You'll notice for the iPod application,
all I have are audio endpoints.
Obviously that indicates
I can route the audio.
It's the only thing you
can route from the iPod,
so I guess it's kind of obvious.
But on the right,
I have the movie player application.
And you'll notice that
I have both video endpoints,
indicated by the movie screen,
and audio endpoints.
So the difference there is that a
video endpoint will route both the
video and the audio to that endpoint,
whereas the audio route will
continue to show the video on
the iOS device in your hand,
and will actually take the audio and
route it up to the home theater system,
speaker system, et cetera.
Okay.
So I'm going to select each of these.
You'll notice that the
focus point changes.
And now that I'm actually streaming
the AirPlay stream to the endpoint,
the AirPlay icon turns blue.
And in the case of the movie player,
I also get a nice message that
indicates where that video is going.
There's one thing I want to point out,
just because I mentioned it earlier,
and that's with the memory of volume
for each of the AirPlay accessories,
you'll notice that the system
volume on the left has now shifted
up to the right and has remembered
what that AirPlay endpoint was
set to as soon as I connect to it,
which is great.
Okay, so how do you actually use
this in your application?
For audio, basically you want to use
the Media Player framework,
and you just want to use
the standard volume view.
That's the one thing
you have to remember,
just the standard volume
view for your application,
and you'll get all the
features I just showed you.
For video, you can use either
MP Movie Player Controller or
AV Foundation,
which will give you a little more control
over what you want to do with the video.
But it's really just as simple as audio.
All you have to do is use the
standard system level services
that we offer to make sure you
can get both of those features
integrated to your own application.
Everything else is taken care of for you.
Basically, we trigger the route
button automatically.
The user can access
all the volume levels,
the routes, et cetera,
without you having to
worry about anything.
You don't even have to worry about
when it's routing to AirPlay.
It's all kind of taken care of for you.
It's kind of a blind transition,
and there's no differences in terms
of the way you control things.
There are a couple more details that
I want to point out just because they're
very useful to make sure that your
user can have the best experience.
The first, if you use the MP Volume View,
make sure you don't
hide the Route button.
You have to do this actively.
The default is definitely that
the Route button is visible,
but if you hide it,
it makes the user have to go to
the multi-touch -- excuse me -- the
The switcher, basically,
from the home screen.
So you have to double-click
the home button,
and you have to go to the multitasking
UI to select your AirPlay route,
which is kind of inconvenient.
So just don't say no to this,
and you'll be fine.
Finally, on the video side,
we ask that you explicitly
allow AirPlay streaming from
your different media assets.
In iOS 5,
this is done for you by default,
but in iOS 4.3,
these are default set to no.
So if you want to be
backwards compatible,
it's best to go through and
actively set these to allow,
and yes.
Obviously,
this is just kind of the one or two
high-level things you guys should do.
It's fairly simple.
If you want more information,
we have lots of sessions on core audio,
core video.
I encourage you to go to those,
ask questions at the labs,
make sure you know exactly
what it is you want to do.
But from a high level,
these are the points you really
need to memorize and know about.
Okay.
Let's move on to using mirroring.
So the way you use mirroring is you
actually go again to the multitasking UI.
You pull it up with the double
click and the slide to the left.
And obviously when you get on a network
where there's an AirPlay device,
you get the AirPlay icon.
I select it.
I have routes just like before.
But there's a slight difference now.
When I select a route that
actually has the ability to mirror,
I get this nice little switch, mirroring,
on or off.
If I leave it off,
basically I get the same functionality
I had when I was using AirPlay.
And I showed you the movie player.
So I'll just stream all of my media
assets directly to the screen.
But when I turn it on,
I now get mirroring functionality.
It's just that simple for the user.
Obviously when I'm actually
routing in the multitasking UI,
I have the glowing blue AirPlay icon.
And once I actually go
back to the home screen,
I want to point out the status bar.
It now turns blue.
And in the upper right,
there's actually a little AirPlay icon
to remind the user that they're
mirroring everything on their
screen to the big screen television.
So this is a situation of
just standard mirroring.
Basically,
I see the exact same thing on the
iPad that I see on the television.
It's a great user experience.
But I can enhance that even,
if I so choose for my app,
to basically give the UI screen view
or a different view between the iPad
screen and the television screen.
This can really be used
to enhance your game,
to enhance your app,
to really give a targeted
experience for AirPlay.
But it's something you have
to do a little more actively.
So how do you take advantage
of it inside your app?
If all you want is mirroring, it's blank.
You do nothing.
You just leave the system to
whatever it wants to do and
we'll take care of it for you.
But if you're looking to create
that kind of tailored view for
the actual AirPlay experience,
what you'll want to do is use UI screen.
There's a session specifically
on AirPlay mirroring and
UI screen here at WWDC.
I encourage you to go and
get all the details there.
Basically,
the overall function is that you get
informed when an external screen arrives,
you get informed of the
resolution of that screen,
and you can decide as an application what
it is you want to do with that screen
in terms of frame rate resolutions,
etc.
There's a lot of detail there.
I highly encourage you
to go to that session,
go to those labs to really ask questions
about this and figure out how to
really take advantage of the mirroring
functionality if you really want your app
to have a tailored mirroring experience.
Everything else is handled
by the system automatically.
So just like all the other
AirPlay technologies,
we handle the routes,
we handle the volume, etc.
So you don't need to worry about it.
Okay.
So we're going to move on a
little bit from AirPlay and talk
about some technologies that,
although really useful to
be leveraged by AirPlay,
are also applicable to... all of our
other transports in terms of accessories.
First is using metadata.
We're excited to announce that in iOS 5,
we now allow metadata to come
from third-party apps and be used
on the system and distributed to
accessories to inform the user what
it is you're playing back in terms of
what your media asset is right now.
So this is the lock screen.
And basically, as you can see,
we have audio on the left,
we have video on the right.
I can see the album title,
I can see the artist name,
I can see the track title.
And again,
if I now go to... to the multitasking UI,
you can see the track title there.
All these are standard things
that you've seen before.
What we also get, though,
is for AirPlay accessories,
there's the ability to take that metadata
and distribute it outwards so that
you can see everything that's playing.
And so you have a television
system on the left,
you have a small speaker
dock on the right.
Great example of ways to use metadata
really thoroughly and inform your user,
not only from the palm of their hand,
but from the device they're actually
enjoying the music experience on as to
exactly what it is they're listening to.
And so we have a lot of different
ways to use the metadata,
including the album art.
This goes beyond just
AirPlay accessories,
though.
And we also have automotive systems,
standard wired MFI accessories,
wireless MFI accessories.
Everything can use this metadata
information from a third-party app.
So it's really interesting and important,
I think, that your app take advantage
of this in iOS 5.0.
So how do you actually provide
metadata from your app?
Well, the first thing I want to touch on
is to make sure you guys realize
you should provide all the metadata
that you can from your app.
There's no reason to gate your user's
experience by you just deciding,
oh, well, all they can see is the
album title right now,
so that's all I'm gonna provide.
The more information you give the system,
the better experience the user
can have at the end of the day,
and the more expandability the
system has into the future.
So I really encourage you to give all
of the metadata you have accessible
to yourselves and make sure that
the system is fully informed so
that we can make sure that all of
the accessories are fully informed.
The system will take care of formatting,
consistency, et cetera,
so you don't have to worry about
trying to do anything special.
Just give us the complete data
and we'll handle the rest for you.
It should really be that easy.
How do you actually do this in code?
Well,
first you want to create a dictionary
for the actual metadata information
about what it is that's now playing.
Essentially, in this case,
we have the property of the
artist and of the track title.
Obviously,
we just create a nice variable.
If you want to blank the metadata or you
don't want to show any metadata at all,
you'd set that variable to nil.
And then we simply assign the now playing
info center information to that variable.
And that's it.
You're done.
This is the extensive list of
everything you can provide to the app,
and once again, I want to stress,
and you'll hear this over and
over in this presentation,
please provide as much of this
information as possible and we'll try to
utilize it to the best of our ability.
And I think it's a really
great experience if users know
exactly what it is that's going
on in the system at the time,
instead of having that blind
experience of maybe seeing one piece
of metadata and hearing something else.
So please go through in that,
start using metadata in iOS 5.
The next thing I want to talk
about is using playback controls.
This is something we introduced last
year and talked a little bit about,
but I think it's more important than
ever now that we have AirPlay involved.
Basically, you can do play, pause, stop,
next, previous,
all sorts of media controls
directly from your device,
directly from your accessory.
So not forcing the user to go back
to the iOS device and worrying
about having to change tracks,
et cetera.
They can do it right from the
remote control of their device,
right from the front
panel of their device.
It's a great experience.
It applies to AirPlay, Bluetooth,
MFI accessories,
even the headphone remote.
So all you have to do is handle this
once and we take care of distributing
it out to all the accessories
that may be used at one time.
How do you do this in code?
Well, most importantly,
you have to turn it on.
So make sure you start receiving remote
control events first and foremost.
And then create a handler.
Now, when you create the handler,
only handle those events that
mean something to your app.
Events only get sent
to the Now Playing app.
So it's not like somebody else
is going to be able to handle it.
So you can't just send it
to the Now Playing app.
It's not like somebody else is
going to be able to handle it.
So you can't just send it
to the Now Playing app.
It's not like somebody else is
going to be able to handle it.
So it's not like somebody else
is going to get the events
if you don't handle them.
And in this case, we're showing just how
to handle a Play event.
But it's really just
a simple case switch.
Go through and handle Play Pause next
if you don't handle previous.
Don't handle previous.
It'll drop on the floor.
No one will be the wiser.
It'll really be a great experience and
it'll match the UI of your application.
This is the extent of the remote
playback controls available to you.
Again, use everything that makes sense.
Not all accessories
may have all of these,
but you'll receive all the events
that come from the specific
remote controls of that accessory.
So again,
don't worry about trying to predict
where the user will be using it.
Just support everything
that you can from the API.
A little bit of summary.
So I think the biggest thing to stress
is just make sure you're using standard
audio and video controls in your apps.
It really helps the user
have a consistent experience.
It really makes sure that you don't
have to worry about going out to the
multitasking UI and trying to fiddle
around and make sure everything
works just the way you want.
If you just use the standard
APIs that we provide,
you'll get the standard
experience that we've designed.
Make sure you don't
hide the route button.
I think that's an important
one for convenience.
Make sure you do allow AirPlay video
to make sure that your media assets
are backwards compatible to iOS 4.3.
And then the other two that
apply not just to AirPlay but
to all the other accessories,
make sure you provide as much metadata
as possible to the system and start
handling remote playback controls to
make sure that the user doesn't have
to go back to the iOS device to figure
out what's going on or how to get to
the next track or how to skip through
the functionality that you're using.
that you've really designed and
given a great experience for already.
Let's move on to
accessories a little bit.
This is the AirPlay technology badge.
This is the icon that you and users
will see on packaging throughout
the world now and this coming
holiday season to indicate that
a device or an accessory is fully
compliant with the AirPlay standard.
So it should be,
the idea is that you walk into a store,
you see this icon,
you can pick it up and have
confidence and know I take this
device home and I install it onto
my network and I have the same
experience that I would have with an
Apple product and of the same quality.
So how do you get
started in this program?
Well, just like most of our other
accessory technologies,
this is the standard MFI program.
You go to developer.apple.com/mfi and
you can get all the documentation,
all the details of what you need to do to
become and create an AirPlay accessory.
And it's a great place to go if
you're interested in accessories in
general because you not only can get
all the information about AirPlay,
you can also get the information
for all sorts of accessories
and how to support them.
So it's really a great place
to get started and a great
source for information.
best practices.
Obviously, the full documentation is
available through the MFI program,
but I think there's a few things you
should be thinking about if you're
conceiving of an Airplay accessory.
First,
make sure you take full advantage of
the information you've registered for.
What does that mean?
Just as I told the iOS developers
that they should be taking advantage
of the full metadata and full
controls that are available to them,
if you have a product and you're
conceiving of a product either with
the screen or with a remote control,
make sure you don't limit
what they can do with it.
Make sure it makes
sense for your product,
of course.
We're not telling you you should
or shouldn't put a screen on it,
but if you put a screen on,
don't limit the user to just using
album title or just seeing track title.
Give them the opportunity to see all
the rich information that's provided.
It's really a better experience.
It really gives them a richer experience.
There's no reason to restrict it.
So we really encourage you
to take full advantage of the
information that's available to you.
Next up, make sure you're available to
the user whenever possible.
The most frustrating experience is
when you really want to listen to
something on your home theater and you're
looking at it in the palm of your hand,
but you have to pause it,
you have to get up,
you have to walk over,
you have to turn on the device,
then you have to go
back to your iOS device,
you have to select the AirPlay route,
and then start everything.
It's really a better experience
if you can just select the
AirPlay route as soon as it occurs
to you from the palm of your hand.
We understand there's power concerns,
we understand there's sleep/wake issues,
there's all sorts of
regulations surrounding this.
We're not telling you to violate those,
but please keep this in mind and
make sure that you're taking full
advantage of the power regulations
that you have and make sure that
you're available as often as possible
so that you can really have that kind
of continuous user experience where
I'm listening to it on my iOS device,
I realize I want to
listen to it on a bigger,
richer system,
and I just press the button and go.
Finally,
I want to encourage you all to think
about how to get on the network.
Getting on the network is key in
terms of a first experience with
your particular AirPlay accessory.
Obviously, standard Wi-Fi is not
particularly complicated,
but especially if you don't have
a display and you need to start
entering SSIDs and you need to
start entering security information,
you want to give this some
serious thought to make sure
the user doesn't come home,
is super excited about
their AirPlay accessory,
and then all of a sudden has to go
through this really complex process
to get it set up on their network.
You don't want them to
start off frustrated.
You don't want them to have
a negative opinion about your
product before they even start.
So really put some serious thought into
this and figure out how to do it right,
how to give a great
experience to your users.
Okay,
so that's pretty much it on AirPlay.
I hope you guys are a
little more excited,
a little more interested.
Obviously,
we'll be available in the lab session
to answer any questions you might have.
And I hope you start using
AirPlay as a technology in both
your apps and your accessories.
And kind of now staying
on the wireless topic,
I want to bring up Brian Tucker to
talk through Bluetooth and iOS
so that you can understand how
to use that technology as well.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My name is Brian Tucker and I'm the
Senior Software Engineering Manager for
Bluetooth Technologies.
Pretty much across our
entire iOS platform.
[Transcript missing]
So with hands-free up till now,
we've been limited to 8
kilohertz 16-bit audio.
And it works,
but it doesn't sound really great.
So the standards body has
implemented an update to this
to support wideband speech.
So we're supporting this in iOS 5.
We're using the standard
modified SBC codec for this.
It's a 16-kilo audio sample,
but it does not increase
bandwidth consumption.
So we're still looking at
64k streams up and down.
So the big win here, obviously,
is a lot better audio quality.
And so the advantage that you're going
to see as a consumer and as a developer
is much better processing capabilities.
For example, voice recognition is going
to work a lot better.
Voice recording is going
to sound a lot better.
Products like FaceTime or a VoIP app
is going to sound a lot better.
And ultimately the goal here
is to try to create a seamless
connection or a transparent,
just as you would perceive if you're
using the microphone on the phone or if
you're using the microphone on a headset.
So with this,
we also give apps the ability to
use audio from the headset and
to send audio to the headset.
So the voice capabilities of WBS can
now apply to third-party apps.
So you can be tunneling
your audio from a VoIP app,
for example, through a hands-free device.
So a user could theoretically
make a VoIP call mobily in a car.
And then finally,
we're allowing now multiple
MFI accessories to be connected
simultaneously via Bluetooth.
With wired,
this wasn't nearly as much of an issue.
But with Bluetooth,
you can have multiple accessories,
and we're allowing that to
happen with Bluetooth products
or with the Bluetooth transport.
So state of iOS Bluetooth,
this is kind of your menu of
features that are available to you.
HFP 1.6 is new.
We covered that.
AVRCP 1.4 is new.
All of the other things are available.
So we're allowing that
to happen with Bluetooth.
And then, of course, we still support the
iPod Accessory Protocol.
Okay.
Guidelines.
So last year,
we didn't have this available yet.
But now, this is available to you
from the iOS Dev Center.
You'll see it right on the website,
plain as day.
And this is a living document.
So every time that we update our software
or we update Bluetooth on our platform,
we update this document.
And this talks about things
like what we support.
What best practices we encourage you to
develop for in terms of audio codecs,
compression ratios, stiff modes,
everything that you should run into as
a Bluetooth accessory manufacturer or an
application developer you should need.
And if you don't see it in there,
let us know, and we'll keep updating it.
So speaking of best practices,
there are some key things that
I think everybody should strive for.
One of them is use the
latest Bluetooth standards.
Bluetooth 2.1 plus EDR or
Bluetooth 3.0 which has EDR built in.
Implement these in your products.
Your users are going
to love you for this.
Some key things off of that,
use device ID profile.
In our products,
in every iOS platform that we develop,
we provide information
in the device ID profile.
So if you're an accessory
and you connect to iOS,
you know exactly what
you've connected to.
What hardware, what version of software,
etc.
What version of controller,
all of that information is
developed to you in device ID.
And we like the same
information from your accessory,
hopefully.
[Transcript missing]
Topology Management.
So one of the big things we're
running into right now is coexistence.
We have more and more accessories
trying to connect to iOS at one time,
and we have to try to keep all
those devices working together.
So we have to manage antenna time.
And when we have Wi-Fi connected and we
have a keyboard connected and we have
a headset connected and we're tethering
with somebody else's phone and my,
you know, on and on and on,
and we try not to limit
you from doing all this,
well,
in order for us to get that to work,
we have to be the master.
But unfortunately,
we're not always able to do that
because accessories don't allow us.
Some key points here,
the master always has to be controlling
timing and the client always has
to adhere to the master's timing.
So let's look at a typical use case.
So let's say we have our iOS device
here and you have an accessory and the
accessory connects to the iOS device.
So in that case, the accessory is master.
The iOS device is slave.
So let's say we have another accessory.
So the first accessory,
let's say it's a headset and
you're streaming HTTP audio.
And the second device is a
keyboard and it connects.
Well, in that case, it's master as well.
But let's say the accessory,
the first device doesn't
allow for a topology switch.
So if we include Wi-Fi in
this whole thing and we're
connected to a base station,
the entire environment,
the whole ecosystem is severely,
severely limited.
So if we have a device that's
connected to a base station,
the entire environment,
the entire ecosystem is severely
limited because we can't control the
timing for Wi-Fi nor can we control
the timing for the accessories.
So the way that we fix this
is if we have this accessory,
we bring the other
accessory into the picture,
the first accessory can be master.
We don't have a problem with
that if it's one device.
But as soon as the second
accessory connects,
the iOS device is going to
try to do a role switch.
And the idea here is it wants
to stay master of the ecosystem.
So that when Wi-Fi comes
along and it connects,
the overall experience is much better.
We can now allow for time for
Wi-Fi to have maximum bandwidth,
and we can allow A2DP to get
all of its packets across,
because we're controlling
those windows of time.
Time spaces are, unfortunately,
we have not conquered physics yet,
so we have to adhere to time space.
So key things to look at here,
allow iOS to do topology role switching.
This is being covered in the
Bluetooth standards body right now,
and it's being heavily debated.
But in cases where you have a
device such as an iOS device that
has to manage multiple accessories,
allow for role switching.
And then secondary,
which I know is somewhat
contradictory to what I'm saying,
but allow the iOS device to
politely refuse a role switch.
Because if it's running a scenario where
it has multiple Bluetooth accessories,
and Wi-Fi, it may say, "No, sorry,
I can't let you be master right now.
I've got to deal with all
these products." Okay,
and then one other issue.
It's probably not surprising
to you that audio is really,
really important for us.
We want the best possible
experience for the consumer,
whether they're on a phone call,
whether they're listening to music,
whether they're watching a movie.
We want it to sound really, really good.
So there's some key things that we
think we can do to improve that.
First, use wideband speech.
We talked about that already,
but if you're going to be making
accessories in the future and it
involves SCO audio or mono audio,
use wideband speech.
Secondly, with HTTP,
we realized that SBCs are a requirement
when you're implementing an HTTP profile.
So if you're going to do that,
use standards or use parameters that
generate the best possible audio quality.
And the key point here is the bit pool,
primarily.
You should shoot for a 53-bit pool,
which is going to generate
about a 370 kbps stream.
And you should be able to manage
that in modern headset controllers.
But beyond that, if you can, look at AAC.
We implemented this last year,
and we're starting to see devices on
the market that are using AAC today.
But implement this.
Big win for two reasons.
One,
it uses about 40% of the data bandwidth
that a high-quality SBC stream uses.
So rather than 350 or 360 kbps streams,
you're looking at 128 kbps
stream with an AAC stream.
And then secondly, it just sounds better.
I mean, both subjectively and
objectively measured,
AAC truly sounds better than SBC.
Okay, so in summary, two key points.
Go to the design guidelines document.
Look that up.
You'll find an iOS dev center.
Like I said, we keep this up to date as
much as we possibly can.
Definitely review that.
And then secondly, if you have questions,
you can ask our Dev Relations team,
but you can also get involved with
us by joining our mailing list.
And we all monitor this mailing list.
So if you have a question or if you're
working on a particular implementation,
send your question on that mail
list and we will respond to it,
usually within a day or even immediately,
depending upon whether we're
at our computer or not.
So that's Bluetooth.
So I'd like to bring Emily back
up to cover accessories
and we'll go from there.
Now I have some more general
accessory related updates for you.
Some of you might not be
familiar with the term IAP.
We use it every once in a while.
IAP stands for iPod Accessory Protocol,
and it allows an accessory to
communicate with and control iOS device,
an iOS device.
And if you want any more information on
IAP or if you want access to the hundreds
and hundreds of pages of specifications,
just get in touch with the MFI program.
First, I would like to talk to you about
the External Accessory framework,
which we sometimes call the EA framework.
EA allows an app to connect to
a compatible accessory and then
exchange arbitrary data with it over
a protocol of the developer's design.
This has been exciting
for a lot of developers.
They've had an opportunity to make
accessories in all different categories
that really weren't available before.
I'd like to give you some examples
of what we've seen come to market.
This has been available
since version 3 of the OS.
I'd like to give you a few examples
out of the hundreds and hundreds
of accessories that are out there,
just to show you the breadth
of opportunities that the
developers have found.
Here's the iBike Dash cycling computer.
And the iGrill grilling
and cooking thermometer.
Very useful.
We also have the iHealth
Blood Pressure Dock.
So these devices exist in every
vertical from home health to
automotive and have really made for
some wonderful user experiences.
We're very excited about what's
out there already and about what's
coming down the pike for our
developers and for our customers.
Really a lot of great products
that drive a lot of excitement
about the iOS platform.
All the things that our users can do
with this one device that they bought.
They can buy all of these other
accessories and really make
it the center of their lives.
So what's new for the EA framework?
What have we added for iOS 5?
Well, first,
we've added the ability for apps that
can already multitask to continue
talking to their connected accessory
while they're in the background.
Yeah, long awaited.
And this, I think,
is key for a number of use cases.
So, for example, an audio app or someone
who is using core location,
when they go into the background,
they can keep that EA session open
and continue talking to their app.
I mean, really for a lot of
navigation apps in particular,
this is just critical.
So, very excited about this.
We've also added the capability
for an accessory to trigger a
notification to the user that will
then allow the user to launch an app.
[Transcript missing]
So another update that I have for
you today concerns accessibility.
Apple is dedicated to accessibility.
On both Mac OS and iOS we have a
number of features that are aimed
specifically at accessibility and
our support is really legendary.
It's something that users rave about.
Last year we talked about voiceover,
which gave users who can't see the screen
the ability to remotely with an assistive
input accessory navigate the OS and
listen to where they are on the device.
Now we're adding a new feature
with iOS 5 called Assistive Touch.
Assistive Touch allows someone who can
see the screen but might not be able
to manipulate it with their hands,
manipulate it remotely.
And so they'll use an accessibility
input accessory to navigate around the
screen and they'll get a cursor like the
one you see circled here on the left.
They also have access using other
special features to multi-touch inputs.
So they really get to do just about
anything that I can do on this device,
they can do as well,
which is really liberating and I think
quite a wonderful feature for iOS 5.
There's going to be a session
on accessibility and they will
show a demo in that session.
And so that's something
that is accessory related.
And that we hope accessory
manufacturers will take advantage of,
much like they have voiceover with iOS 5.
[Transcript missing]